feat: week 1-8 reviewer notes (#25)
Code-the-Dream-School/school-pages: src/pages/node-express/reviewer-notes-week-2.md

---
title: Week 1 Reviewer Notes (node/express)

> description: Reviewer notes for week 1 of the node/express CTD course

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with how the markdown parsing works for this repo; but should these all say Week 1?

Author: ah, yes, these use the, "Jack copied and pasted and forgot to fix it content management methodology" –– clearly very intentional, of course.

fixed

Also, in all seriousness, these become the html `<title>` and the content of `<meta name="description">`, respectively.

layout: "../../layouts/genericMarkdownFile.astro"
---

# Lesson 2: Async Patterns (mainly callbacks)

> Students do the node tutorial from part 12 to the end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Students continue to work on  the node tutorial  in `01-node-tutorial` from part 12 to the end (part 17).
```

Author: changed

[Lesson page](https://learn.codethedream.org/ctd-node-express-class-lesson-2a-npm-and-async-patterns/)

> [Tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oe421EPjeBE&t=6357s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oe421EPjeBE&t=6357s) from 1:45:57 to 3:40:46 (end of `End of Node Tutorial Module` chapter)
```

Author: embelished

# Tedium

This is a copy-and-paste-heavy assignment. Since students put their work into a
different folder, it's quite tricky to understand exactly what they changed
unless you know the course well. As a workaround, you can move student work
into the not-answers folder to easily see exactly what (if anything) they
changed compared to the boilerplate that comes with the course:

```bash
git remote add $STUDENT_NAME $STUDENT_REMOTE_URI
git fetch $STUDENT_NAME
git checkout $STUDENT_NAME/$STUDENT_BRANCH
# Note that students often put their work in random places, but this is where
# it's supposed to be according to directions!
cp 01-node-tutorial/answers/*.js 01-node-tutorial
git diff
```

Also, note that example in `../01-node-tutorial/1-event-loop-examples` and

> `../01-node-tutorial/1-event-loop-examples` are not mentioned in CTD lesson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`../01-node-tutorial/2-async-patterns` are not mentioned in CTD lesson
```

Author: fixed

end. We won't visit the event emitter API again; if the HTTP server stuff is
clicking with students, but the event emitter is not, simply offer
encouragement and reinforcement to the student. Ask questions that scaffold
students' understanding of the important learning objects instead of the
minutia of the event emitter API.

## Streaming

Again, very tricky content that we don't revisit later in the course. Lay the
validation and sponsorship on thick.

Of course, streams and buffers are a fundamental concept in computing and
operating systems. They are present during any HTTP operation, file I/O, or
interaction between a web application server and a database.

Try explaining streams and buffers with high-level analogies, since a
high-level understanding is enough for students to walk away with. For example:

> Consider people waiting in line. Then length of the line is the buffer size.
> Reading from the stream is like serving a customer, they are removed from the
> line. Writing to the stream is like someone new getting in line.

It may be worthwhile to point out that most HTTP application servers do not
deal with this problem at all; at least not insofar as pushing around very

> large files. They will typically defer problems like this to S3 or a CDN.

Reviewer: I don't have much to add since the only thing I've ever used Node.js streams for is for parsing a [big CSV](https://github.com/akosasante/TradeMachineServer/blob/cca94f39d2f02c5e6261f38f5f33a184a8fbdd50/src/csv/PlayerParser.ts#L62-L76) file. Some links I've shared for student's who asked for more reading:

*   [https://kinda-silly-blog.vercel.app/posts/nodejs-streams](https://kinda-silly-blog.vercel.app/posts/nodejs-streams)
*   [https://archive.ph/jBRlO](https://archive.ph/jBRlO)
*   [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldcfYB_mo6Q](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldcfYB_mo6Q)
*   [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BdePYKgrMh0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BdePYKgrMh0)

Author: added these
